---
layout:     post
title:      "Journey of Building and Launching Instagram Analysis Tool - Part 1"
date:       2017-06-06 12:00:00
author:     "Juned Munshi"
header-img: "img/post-bg-02.jpg"
published : false
---

- I landed in banglore and met Tej who runs jaaga startups- co-workign space.
- We talked about consulting in IOT and embedded systems space and I also showed him instagram analysis python script and analytics data that I wrote for friend to help her grow instagram follower for her clothing brand. 
- Tej said its cool and people might pay for this. Why don't you give it a shot. I said you wann do it togather . He said okay. So it begin.
- AWS lambda +prototype ready (4 days)
- Landing page 
- We decided to talk to 5 people to see if landing page communicates the message.We showed them the landing page and asked following three simple questions
    - what does page tell you?
    - Do you feel it is useful to you based on what page tells you?
    - Would you be willing to pay for such a tool?
- In the end we offered them Free analysis reports.
- We also realized that we need to prepare how to use guide for the report.
- We send this email offering to order free report to all five people. But none of them ordered.
- We also send Direct Message to 20 and more accounts on instagram. None of them replied. perphases instagram is filtering the messages.
- Tired another apporch. Asked a friend to give me references. DM thoese accounts .After two days they replied they are interested. Send them the order page. they didn't ordered.
- Tej said let's try email because email works. He had around 1000 emails but they may not be on instagram. So instead of using those emails , I decided to scrap emails from the instagram accounts.
- Scrapped bio of 1500 accounts and scrapped 180 emails out of those.
- Created email campain on mailchimp campain and sent email to people who had followers less than 50000.
- With in 24 hours results were there.
    - 50% open rate which was 70 people opened it. That is surprisingly very high.
    - 6.3% click rate which was 10 people clicked link which take them to landing page.
    - only 2 people placed free order which about 1% of total emails sent.
- The big question is why people are not ordering desipite such high open rate? what can we do about it?
- I researched instagram tools that people are paying for. 
- Is it time to piviot or run another campain?
- Decided to send email again to people who opened and asked them what problem they are trying to solve.
- What next? To be continued.
